OSDOCS#6496: Document automated etcd backups (#66678)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/etcd-creating-automated-backups.adoc

Author: Completely agreed, and I currently plan to fix this up post-GA. :slightly_smiling_face:

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
= Creating automated etcd backups

The automated backup feature for etcd supports both recurring and single backups. Recurring backups are implemented as a cronjob that starts a single backup each time it triggers.

You can set the method of backup retention to `RetentionNumber`, `RetentionSize`, or `""`. If unspecified or set to `""`, the default retention type is `RetentionSize` with 15 maximum backups. Specifying a retention type overrides the default value.

[TIP]
====
Use dynamically-provisioned storage to keep the created etcd backup data in a safe, external location if possible. If dynamically-provisioned storage is not available, consider storing the backup data on an NFS share to make backup recovery more accessible.
====

:FeatureName: Automating etcd backups
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

* You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Create a `FeatureGate` custom resource (CR) file named `etcd-enable-automated-backups.yaml` with the following contents:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> QUESTION: Are there any side effects of the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set to warn the user about? 

Author: Found the answer to this one myself in the API docs:

"Turning this feature set on IS NOT SUPPORTED, CANNOT BE UNDONE, and PREVENTS UPGRADES."

Seems like we should probably mention this. ;)

  namespace: openshift-etcd
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 200Gi <.>
  storageClassName: standard-csi <.>
  volumeMode: Filesystem
----
<.> The amount of storage available to the PVC. Adjust this value for your requirements.
<.> The name of the `StorageClass` required by the claim. Adjust this value according to your environment.
+
[NOTE]
====
Each of the following providers requires `ReadWriteMany` for the `accessModes` key:

* Google Cloud Platform
* Microsoft Azure
* AWS when using the `versioned-installer-efc_operator-ci` profile

Each listed provider requires the following `storageClassName`:

AWS:: `efs-sc`
Google Cloud Platform:: `filestore-csi`
Microsoft Azure:: `azurefile-csi`
====

.. Apply the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-backup-pvc.yaml
----

.. Verify the creation of the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pvc
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME              STATUS    VOLUME   CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
etcd-backup-pvc   Pending                                      standard-csi   51s
----

> . If dynamically-provisioned storage is unavailable, create a local storage PVC by completing the following steps:

Reviewer: a dynamic PVC will always stay Pending until it's mounted, not sure this will confuse anyone

Author: Noted, I'll add an admonition to notify the reader.

----

. Create a custom resource definition (CRD) file named `etcd-recurring-backups.yaml`. The contents of the created CRD define the schedule and retention type of automated backups.
+
For the default retention type, use contents such as the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Backup
metadata:
  name: etcd-recurring-backup
spec:
  etcd:
    schedule: "20 4 * * *" <.>
    timeZone: "UTC"
    retentionPolicy:
      retentionType: "" <.>
    pvcName: etcd-backup-pvc
----
<.> The `CronTab` schedule for recurring backups. Adjust this value for your needs.
<.> The `""` retention type specifies the default type and size.
+
To use retention based on the maximum number of backups, add the following key-value pairs to the `retentionPolicy`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
retentionPolicy:
  retentionType: RetentionNumber
  retentionNumber:
    maxNumberOfBackups: 5 <.>
----
<.> The maximum number of backups to retain. Adjust this value for your needs.
+
For retention based on the file size of backups, use the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
retentionPolicy:
  retentionType: RetentionSize
  retentionSize:
    maxSizeOfBackupsGb: 10 <.>
----

> <.> The maximum file size of the retained backups in gigabytes. Adjust this value for your needs.

Reviewer: please leave a note around a known bug for the retention. Both size and number can go over the configured limit - that's known. Just in case people configure 10gig PVCs and they run out of space immediately.

One snapshot can be up to 8 gigs, so there needs to be enough buffer left.

seems this memo got lost between tickets :/ 

https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-17952?focusedId=23173156&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-23173156

Author: The issue linked to only discusses `maxNumberOfBackups` and explains that the reality is one backup higher than configured. Do we have something specific to say about `maxSizeOfBackupsGb`? Saying that it "can be higher than configured" seems vague to me. If we have nothing specific to say, I'm okay with it.

Reviewer: > Do we have something specific to say about maxSizeOfBackupsGb? 

I'd tend to say  +10 gigs over the configured retention would be safe.

. Create the cronjob defined by the CRD by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f etcd-recurring-backup.yaml
----

. To find the created cronjob, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cronjob -n openshift-etcd
----

> [IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: no troubleshooting tips went into the docs? :/ 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iIyJYAl2G70RPsPY3wF65i06PGFWBJs-Hk7z68tFPEM/edit#heading=h.cwfnvnd2798b

Reviewer: fair enough, hope this doesn't create too many support questions on the forum.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/recommended-performance-scale-practices/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
= Creating automated etcd backups

The automated backup feature for etcd supports both recurring and single backups. Recurring backups create a cronjob that starts a single backup each time it triggers.

> You can set the method of backup retention to `RetentionNumber`, `RetentionSize`, or `""`. If unspecified or set to `""`, the default retention type is `RetentionSize` with 15 maximum backups. Specifying a retention type overrides the default value.

Reviewer: probably better to put this after (6) where you're actually configuring the retention?

we also have a default for RetentionSize, which is 10gigs. 

https://github.com/openshift/cluster-etcd-operator/blob/master/pkg/operator/periodicbackupcontroller/periodicbackupcontroller.go#L207-L221

:FeatureName: Automating etcd backups
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Create a `FeatureGate` custom resource (CR) file named `etcd-enable-automated-backups.yaml` with the following contents:
+
[WARNING]
====
The `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set required for this procedure is **not supported**, **cannot be undone**, and **prevents upgrades**.
====
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  annotations:
    include.release.openshift.io/self-managed-high-availability: "true"
    include.release.openshift.io/single-node-developer: "true"
    release.openshift.io/create-only: "true"
  name: cluster
spec:
  customNoUpgrade:
    enabled:
      - AutomatedEtcdBackup
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
----

. Run the following command to apply the CR and enable automated backups:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f etcd-enable-automated-backups.yaml

Reviewer: it takes a little time to enable the APIs after running that command. So immediately posting the backup resource will certainly fail. Could you leave a quick note on that as well, please?

Author: Is there a command that the user can run to verify whether or not the APIs are enabled, or do we just have to tell them to wait a bit?

Reviewer: seems this is documented at the bottom of https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.html#nodes-cluster-enabling-features-cli_nodes-cluster-enabling

not sure that's the right indication for us though. I think we can also check whether the api CRD exists. 
Something along the lines of `oc get crd | grep etcdbackup` - I don't have a cluster handy to test right now, will let you know once it's working.

Reviewer: so the error you'll get back when it's not installed yet is:
> error: resource mapping not found for name: "testbackup" namespace: "openshift-etcd" from "/home/tjungblu/Downloads/backup.yaml": no matches for kind "EtcdBackup" in version "operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1"
ensure CRDs are installed first

(the file, names and namespace obviously differs)

> $ oc get crd | grep backup

indeed works to test whether the CRD is installed.

It didn't work after posting the feature gate as `CustomNoUpgrade` though, seems the API installation is gated on `TechPreviewNoUpgrade`. So the patch would look like what's described in:

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.html#nodes-cluster-enabling-features-cli_nodes-cluster-enabling

```yaml
---
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade
```

Enabling the flag with `CustomNoUpgrade` seems to enable the feature in cluster-etcd-operator, but does not install the CRDs. Still takes a little while, but it eventually shows up.

----

> . (Optional) If needed, complete the following steps to start a single backup:

Reviewer: not sure if that's what @dusk125 mentioned, but this seems kinda out of place. Can we make another top level section for one-off backups?

In the future it should replace the section that's at the top of the page: "Backing up etcd data". Not sure if it makes sense to mention it in there too.

Author: I think it makes the most sense to put this into a separate procedure. Having all of these instructions in a single procedure is confusing IMHO.

Author: For now, I'm adding section headings to help make this easier to navigate. We can circle back around later as the feature matures and take a look at the docs again as needed.

etcd-backup-pv-fs       100Gi      RWX            Delete           Available           local-storage            10s
----

.. Create a PVC named `etcd-backup-pvc.yaml` with contents such as the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: etcd-backup-pvc
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteMany
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi <.>
  storageClassName: local-storage
----
<.> The amount of storage available to the PVC. Adjust this value for your requirements.

.. Apply the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-backup-pvc.yaml
----

. Create a custom resource definition (CRD) file named `etcd-recurring-backups.yaml`. The contents of the created CRD define the schedule and retention type of automated backups.
+
For the default retention type, use contents such as the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Backup
metadata:
  name: etcd-recurring-backup
spec:
  etcd:
    schedule: "20 4 * * *" <.>
    timeZone: "UTC"
    retentionPolicy:

>       retentionType: "" <.>

Reviewer: quickly testing this yields:

```
[tjungblu ~]$ kubectl apply -f /tmp/test.yaml 
The Backup "etcd-recurring-backup" is invalid: 
* spec.etcd.retentionPolicy.retentionType: Unsupported value: "": supported values: "RetentionNumber", "RetentionSize"
* <nil>: Invalid value: "": "spec.etcd.retentionPolicy.retentionType" must validate all the schemas (allOf)
```

are you sure that the default "" works? :)

Reviewer 2: Hi @kowen-rh ,
Please refer this https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lWKE0689aChScmqeFvCxuMHRZD0M-Gv-GlscAgpjwAs/edit#heading=h.dds4j7gs8mu3 where this test scenario has been captured and executed with successful logs. 

Below is the yaml file for validating the default value of retentiontype.

apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Backup
metadata:
   name: testbackup-h
spec:
   etcd:
      schedule: "*/3 * * * *"
      timeZone: "UTC"
      pvcName: <corresponding pvc-name>

Author: Are you suggesting that the literal value `""` itself doesn't work, but simply not specifying a value does?

Reviewer 2: yes.

    pvcName: etcd-backup-pvc
----
<.> The `CronTab` schedule for recurring backups. Adjust this value for your needs.
<.> The `""` retention type specifies the default type and size.
+
To use retention based on the maximum number of backups, add the following key-value pairs to the `retentionPolicy`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
retentionPolicy:
  retentionType: RetentionNumber
  retentionNumber:
    maxNumberOfBackups: 5 <.>
----
<.> The maximum number of backups to retain. Adjust this value for your needs.
+
[WARNING]
====

> A known issue causes the number of retained backups to be one greater than the configured value.

Reviewer: Also here, I would rather put it as:  By design we're running the retention before taking any backups to free space. The max number of backups are the ones that are kept for history, in addition to the most recent one.

Author: This one makes a bit more sense to me.

Reviewer: you can call it what way you want, I just wanted to give you an explanation to avoid calling it a "known issue".

Author: Okay. To me, "bug" and "known issue" are practically synonymous, so I'll leave these descriptions as-is for now.

====
+
For retention based on the file size of backups, use the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
retentionPolicy:
  retentionType: RetentionSize
  retentionSize:
    maxSizeOfBackupsGb: 10 <.>
----
<.> The maximum file size of the retained backups in gigabytes. Adjust this value for your needs.
+
[WARNING]
====

> A known issue causes the maximum size of retained backups to be up to 10 gigabytes greater than the configured value.

Reviewer: It's actually by design - also because we don't know the size of the backups up front. But we can leave this "known issue" here for the time being.

Author: You referred to this earlier as a "known bug," so I'm honestly confused here. Is it a bug or not? If it's not a bug, then I feel like the name `maxSizeOfBackups` is misleading, as it's expected that the actual maximum size will be larger than the maximum size that the user configures.

This seems very strange to me.

Reviewer: > maxSizeOfBackups is misleading, as it's expected that the actual maximum size will be larger than the maximum size that the user configures.

it is to some degree, that's why I wanted you to document it before customers open dozens of bug tickets around this.

Author: Okay, that makes sense. Thanks for explaining!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/backing-up-etcd.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
= Creating automated etcd backups

> The automated backup feature for etcd supports both recurring and single backups. Recurring backups create a cron job that starts a single backup each time it triggers.

Author: Avoiding passive voice, I went with "each time the job triggers."

> :FeatureName: Automating etcd backups

Author: Technically, yes, but unfortunately, the technology preview snippet has a hard-coded "is" in it ("{FeatureName} is a Technology Preview feature only").

In order to avoid plural/singular disagreement, this was a compromise. :slightly_smiling_face:

include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="enabling-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
== Enabling automated etcd backups

Follow these steps to enable the automated backups feature for etcd.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

> . Create a `FeatureGate` custom resource (CR) file named `etcd-enable-automated-backups.yaml` with the following contents:

Reviewer 3: In other places in this file, you use the phrase "with content such as the following example:" to lead into a code example. For consistency, I'd suggest using the same phrase throughout the file, unless in certain cases (like this one) you really mean that the user should use the exact contents that are provided.

Author: Yes, in this case, they are supposed to copy the literal contents here. I use "such as" to indicate that changes may be required to the example content.

+
[WARNING]
====

> Enabling the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster cannot be undone and prevents minor version updates. You should not enable this feature set on production clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set is enabled on your cluster, it prevents minor version updates. The `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set cannot be disabled. Do not enable this feature set on production clusters.
```
- I divided the two main points from the first sentence into two sentences, as they each seem important enough to stand alone.
- Per IBM Style [Word usage](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage), whenever possible, rewrite statements that include "should" to be more direct.
- Also, given the importance of this warning, I wonder if it should be placed before the procedure? I understand why you placed it near the step where you add the feature set, but I think I'd want to know the information in the warning before I started reading the procedure.

Author: All good points, thank you!

====
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade
----

> . It takes time to enable the related APIs before you can apply the CR. Verify the creation of the custom resource definition (CRD) before applying the CR by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. It takes time to enable the related APIs before you can apply the CR. Verify the creation of the custom resource definition (CRD) before you apply the CR by running the following command:
```

> . It takes time to enable the related APIs before you can apply the CR. Verify the creation of the custom resource definition (CRD) before you apply the CR by running the following command:

Reviewer: why verify _before_ you're enabling the featuregate with oc? you gotta swap step 2 with 3

Author: I misunderstood what you said previously, haha. Fixed now, thank you!

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get crd | grep backup
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
backups.config.openshift.io 2023-10-25T13:32:43Z
etcdbackups.operator.openshift.io 2023-10-25T13:32:04Z
----

. Apply the CR and enable automated backups:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f enable-tech-preview-no-upgrade.yaml
----

[id="creating-single-etcd-backup_{context}"]
== Creating a single etcd backup

Follow these steps to create a single etcd backup by creating and applying a custom resource (CR).

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

> 

Reviewer: if you put it that way, you might also need a PVC to store data on

Author: Ah, good point, thanks!

.Procedure

> . Create a CR file named `etcd-single-backup.yaml` with contents such as the following example:

Reviewer 3: If by "such as", you mean "similar to", you can replace "such as" with "like".

Reviewer 3: Oh, interesting! The preference for "such as" must be a Red Hat thing, then. I have to confess that I know IBM Style best since it was my sole guidebook for so many years, and it recommends using "like" when you mean "similar to" and "such as" otherwise. Feel free to use "such as" if Vale doesn't like "like".

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: EtcdBackup
metadata:
  name: etcd-single-backup
  namespace: openshift-etcd
spec:
  pvcName: etcd-backup-pvc <.>
----

> <.> The name of the persistent volume claim (PVC) to save the backup to. This value is an example.

Reviewer 3: In other places where variables are used, you use the phrase "Adjust this value according to your environment." Consider using that wording here for consistency.

. Apply the CR to start a single backup:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-single-backup.yaml
----

[id="creating-recurring-etcd-backups_{context}"]
== Creating recurring etcd backups

Follow these steps to create automated recurring backups of etcd.

Use dynamically-provisioned storage to keep the created etcd backup data in a safe, external location if possible. If dynamically-provisioned storage is not available, consider storing the backup data on an NFS share to make backup recovery more accessible.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. If dynamically-provisioned storage is available, complete the following steps to create automated recurring backups:

> .. Create a persistent volume claim (PVC) named `etcd-backup-pvc.yaml` with contents such as the following example:

Reviewer 3: See my earlier comment (line 76) about potentially replacing "such as" with "like".

<.> The name of the `StorageClass` required by the claim. Adjust this value according to your environment.
+
[NOTE]
====
Each of the following providers require changes to the `accessModes` and `storageClassName` keys:

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Provider|`accessModes` value|`storageClassName` value

|AWS with the `versioned-installer-efc_operator-ci` profile
|`- ReadWriteMany`
|`efs-sc`

|Google Cloud Platform
|`- ReadWriteMany`
|`filestore-csi`

|Microsoft Azure
|`- ReadWriteMany`
|`azurefile-csi`
|===
====

.. Apply the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-backup-pvc.yaml
----

.. Verify the creation of the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pvc
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME              STATUS    VOLUME   CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
etcd-backup-pvc   Pending                                      standard-csi   51s
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Dynamic PVCs stay in the `Pending` state until they are mounted.
====

. If dynamically-provisioned storage is unavailable, create a local storage PVC by completing the following steps:
+
[WARNING]
====

> Deleting or otherwise losing access to the node containing the stored backup data can cause unrecoverable data loss.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you delete or otherwise lose access to the node that contains the stored backup data, you can lose data.
```
The suggested revision directly addresses the reader, which I think is probably appropriate given the importance of this note.

====

.. Create a `StorageClass` CR file named `etcd-backup-local-storage.yaml` with the following contents:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: etcd-backup-local-storage
provisioner: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
----

.. Apply the `StorageClass` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-backup-local-storage.yaml
----

> .. Create a PV named `etcd-backup-pv-fs.yaml` from the applied `StorageClass` with content such as the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Create a PV named `etcd-backup-pv-fs.yaml` from the applied `StorageClass` with content such as the following example:
```

Reviewer 3: See my earlier comment (line 76) about replacing "such as" with "like".

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: etcd-backup-pv-fs
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Gi <.>
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteMany
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Delete
  storageClassName: local-storage
  local:
    path: /mnt/
  nodeAffinity:
    required:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
      - matchExpressions:
        - key: kubernetes.io/hostname
          operator: In
          values:
          - <example-master-node> <.>
----
<.> The amount of storage available to the PV. Adjust this value for your requirements.
<.> Replace this value with the node to attach this PV to.
+
[TIP]
====
Run the following command to list the available nodes:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----
====

.. Verify the creation of the PV by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pv
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                    CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS      CLAIM   STORAGECLASS    REASON   AGE
etcd-backup-pv-fs       100Gi      RWX            Delete           Available           local-storage            10s
----

> .. Create a PVC named `etcd-backup-pvc.yaml` with contents such as the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Create a PVC named `etcd-backup-pvc.yaml` with contents such as the following example:
```
Also, see my earlier comment (line 76) about potentially replacing "such as" with "like".

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: etcd-backup-pvc
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteMany
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi <.>
  storageClassName: local-storage
----
<.> The amount of storage available to the PVC. Adjust this value for your requirements.

.. Apply the PVC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f etcd-backup-pvc.yaml
----

. Create a custom resource definition (CRD) file named `etcd-recurring-backups.yaml`. The contents of the created CRD define the schedule and retention type of automated backups.
+

> For the default retention type of `RetentionNumber` with 15 retained backups, use contents such as the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the default retention type of `RetentionNumber` with 15 retained backups, use contents such as the following example:
```
See my earlier comment about "such as" and "like".

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Backup
metadata:
  name: etcd-recurring-backup
spec:
  etcd:
    schedule: "20 4 * * *" <.>
    timeZone: "UTC"
    pvcName: etcd-backup-pvc
----
<.> The `CronTab` schedule for recurring backups. Adjust this value for your needs.
+
To use retention based on the maximum number of backups, add the following key-value pairs to the `etcd` key:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  etcd:
    retentionPolicy:
      retentionType: RetentionNumber <.>
      retentionNumber:
        maxNumberOfBackups: 5 <.>
----
<.> The retention type. Defaults to `RetentionNumber` if unspecified.
<.> The maximum number of backups to retain. Adjust this value for your needs. Defaults to 15 backups if unspecified.
+
[WARNING]
====
A known issue causes the number of retained backups to be one greater than the configured value.
====
+
For retention based on the file size of backups, use the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  etcd:
    retentionPolicy:
      retentionType: RetentionSize
      retentionSize:
        maxSizeOfBackupsGb: 20 <.>
----

> <.> The maximum file size of the retained backups in gigabytes. Adjust this value for your needs. Defaults to 10 gigabytes if unspecified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<.> The maximum file size of the retained backups in gigabytes. Adjust this value for your needs. Defaults to 10 GB if unspecified.
```
Per IBM Style, spell out the unit of measurement if no number is specified, which you did in the first sentence (`gigabytes`). If a number is specified, I typically see the abbreviation used (`GB`).

+
[WARNING]
====

> A known issue causes the maximum size of retained backups to be up to 10 gigabytes greater than the configured value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A known issue causes the maximum size of retained backups to be up to 10 GB greater than the configured value.
```

====

. Create the cron job defined by the CRD by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f etcd-recurring-backup.yaml
----

. To find the created cron job, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cronjob -n openshift-etcd

> ----

Reviewer 3: I'm sure you've already thought of this, but for the GA version of these docs, it would be great if we could add a "Verification" section with steps to verify that the recurring backups were set up correctly.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/backing-up-etcd.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
= Creating automated etcd backups

The automated backup feature for etcd supports both recurring and single backups. Recurring backups create a cron job that starts a single backup each time the job triggers.

:FeatureName: Automating etcd backups
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="enabling-automated-etcd-backups_{context}"]
== Enabling automated etcd backups

Follow these steps to enable automated backups for etcd.

[WARNING]
====
Enabling the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster prevents minor version updates. The `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set cannot be disabled. Do not enable this feature set on production clusters.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

> * You have access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

Author: I had no idea, thank you!

.Procedure

> . Create a `FeatureGate` custom resource (CR) file named `enable-tech-preview-no-upgrade.yaml` with the following contents:

Author: I _believe_ this is generally applicable, but don't quote me on that. :sweat_smile:
